  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to start by thanking Mr. Smith for authoring the 
measure before us.
  The Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act is a bill to advance our 
support for the people of Hong Kong. This bill updates the longstanding 
U.S. policy on Hong Kong so as to reflect what is happening on the 
ground today.
  The foundation of our relationship with Hong Kong was laid back in 
1992 when Congress passed the Hong Kong Policy Act. That is where we 
got the one country, two systems approach that paved the way for our 
strong partnership with Hong Kong.
  But we are watching now the Chinese Communist Party trying to break 
down that system, trying to strip Hong Kong's autonomy and bring it 
under full control of the government of the mainland. This has 
motivated millions of Hong Kongers to take to the streets and protest 
in defense of their rights. To support them, we need to make sure that 
our policy is brought up to date so it can match the challenges of the 
U.S.-Hong Kong relationship today.
  The Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act does just that. It makes 
clear that the United States will stand up for Hong Kong's autonomy and 
democratic aspirations of its people. It beefs up reporting so that we 
can track any efforts by China to interfere in Hong Kong's affairs and 
to use Hong Kong to avoid U.S. export controls. It slaps sanctions on 
anyone responsible for undermining Hong Kong's autonomy or violating 
Hong Kongers' humans rights.
  This bill sends a strong message to China that the United States 
stands with the people of Hong Kong.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this measure, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, first of all, I want to thank so many people for working 
so hard on this piece of legislation: my good friend,  Jim McGovern, 
the principal cosponsor and just a great friend, on fighting tyranny in 
China. He chairs the China Commission. I am the ranking member. 
Previously, I have chaired it, and so we have gone back and forth in 
working that leadership. I want to thank him especially for that.
  Mr. Speaker, I also want to thank, of course, Chairman Engel and 
Ranking Member McCaul, Chairman Sherman and Ranking Member Yoho for 
their strong support for this bipartisan legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, there are a number of staffers who I will speak about in 
a moment. No. I will do it now: Scott Flipse for his great work on this 
bill, it is landmark work going back to 5 years ago; Jon Stivers; Reva 
Price from the Speaker's office, who has been tenacious on this 
legislation; Jennifer Hendrixson-White; Bryan Burack; Janice Kaguyutan; 
Theresa Lou; Darrow Godeski Merton; Doug Anderson; Piero Tozzi; Sabrina 
Tsai. Just so many very good people who have all pulled together in a 
bipartisan way to make sure that this legislation comes to the floor 
and becomes law.
  Mr. Speaker, since the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre 30 years ago, I 
have had the privilege of working with colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle, including Speaker Pelosi, on human rights, the rule of law and 
democracy for the People's Republic of China.
  Mr. Speaker, I also want to thank Kevin McCarthy, the minority leader 
here in the House, the Republican leader, who has put me on as his 
selection on the China Commission and for his strong support for this 
legislation as well.
  We have always believed, Mr. Speaker, that every person in China 
deserves better than the brutality so many endure every single day and 
the systematic violations of their universally-recognized human rights.
  Tragically, under President Xi Jinping, human rights abuses 
throughout China have significantly worsened, including the pervasive 
use of torture, religious persecution, and human trafficking.
  Solemn promises made by Beijing are rarely kept, and far too many 
leaders of the free world are far too eager to blindly accept fiction 
over fact.
  Broken promises are the rule, not the exception under Xi Jinping, and 
the people of Hong Kong are suffering because of it.
  During the 2014 Umbrella Movement, the world saw the courageous 
people of Hong Kong demanding that Beijing not renege on promises made 
to ensure universal suffrage, basic rights, and authentic elections in 
2017.
  Despite President Xi Jinping's brutal crackdown on protesters then 
and now, triggered this time by an outrageous proposed policy to 
facilitate extradition, the resolve, the courage, the tenacity, and 
clarity of purpose of the people of Hong Kong shines through the 
darkness like the Sun.
  Two days ago, Reuters reported that President Xi Jinping told leaders 
in Nepal, ``Anyone attempting to split China in any part of the country 
will end in crushed bodies and shattered bones.''
  President Xi's government excels in crushing bodies, shattering 
bones, torturing dissidents, and filling concentration camps, massive 
crimes against humanity, for which there has been little or no 
accountability or sanctioning.
  But today, Mr. Speaker, we are simply urging the Chinese President 
and the Hong Kong Chief Executive--and we have that obligation under 
our own laws--to faithfully honor the government's promises.
  Honor the promises made in the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration 
that facilitated the conveyance of Hong Kong from the United Kingdom to 
China beginning on July 1, 1997, that autonomy, human rights, including 
press, assembly, association, and religion, would be exactly the same 
as before the handover for at least 50 years.
  Honor the promises made in the ``Basic Law'' of Hong Kong adopted by 
China's National People's Congress in 1990, before the giveback of Hong 
Kong, that autonomy and rights would be protected.
  Even before the latest round of protests, Mr. Speaker, the U.S. State 
Department has noted that rights and liberties in Hong Kong have 
diminished. They are not living up to their solemn promises made in 
order for the Hong Kong conveyance to occur.
  You know, the great young leader, Joshua Wong, reminded us that a 
fourth of the population of Hong Kong, about 2 million people, turned 
out for one of the peaceful protests. Mr. Speaker, where has that ever 
happened?
  Five years ago, Mr. Speaker, in 2014, joined by Mrs. Pelosi, I 
introduced the bipartisan Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act. We 
did it again in 2015, in 2017, and again this year, again, with my good 
friend from Massachusetts.
  Our new bill, the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act, is a 
blueprint for meaningful action. Specifically, the act directs the 
Secretary of State to certify to Congress annually whether Hong Kong 
continues to deserve special treatment under U.S. law different from 
mainland China in such matters as trade, customs, sanctions 
enforcement, law enforcement cooperation, and protection of human 
rights and the rule of law.
  It encourages the State Department not to deny visas based on an 
applicant's arrest or detention for participating in nonviolent 
activities in Hong Kong.
  It requires an annual report from the Commerce Department on whether 
the Hong Kong Government adequately enforces U.S. export controls and 
sanctions laws, including on those goods and services transshipped to 
North Korea, Iran, or other countries relating to the proliferation of 
weapons of mass destruction, violations of human rights, narcotics 
trafficking, and more.

                              {time}  1600

  It requires an assessment of whether U.S. origin items, including 
software, technology, and services, have been transferred from Hong 
Kong to China in violation of U.S. law and have been used by China for 
mass surveillance, predictive policing, or for the social credit 
system.
  Now, some people might ask: What is this social credit system? Mr. 
Speaker, it is a ubiquitous, totalitarian ``brave new world'' system 
scheduled for implementation by 2020 that will use public records, 
online activities, and other tools of surveillance to aggregate data on 
every single, solitary Chinese citizen and business and use that data 
to monitor, shape, and rate financial, social, religious, or political 
behaviors.
  It requires the Secretary of State to submit a strategy to Congress 
to protect U.S. citizens and businesses in Hong Kong from the erosion 
of autonomy and the rule of law because of actions taken by the Chinese 
Communist governments.
  It requires the President to identify and sanction persons in Hong 
Kong or in mainland China responsible for the erosion of Hong Kong's 
autonomy and serious abuses of human rights.

[[Page H8124]]

  It tracks the Magnitsky Act, which Mr. McGovern and I worked so hard 
to enact into law, so that we deny visas and also deny the ability to 
do business here to the people who are responsible for these egregious 
abuses.
  And it requires a waiver provision that helps ensure that our actions 
protect the great people of Hong Kong and enhance the autonomy rather 
than inadvertently harming it. So it gives real flexibility to the 
President and to the State Department to make the right call.
  Finally, Mr. Speaker, I have heard it said that the business of Hong 
Kong is business. It is that. But it is also clear to me, now, that the 
business of Hong Kong is freedom and democracy.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I join with the gentleman from New Jersey 
in praising the staff members who helped create these bills, not only 
the one under consideration, but the other two that deal with Hong 
Kong.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts 
(Mr. McGovern), a great champion for human rights.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3289, the Hong 
Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Chris Smith for his incredible 
leadership in introducing this bipartisan legislation and for all of 
his work on human rights. I also thank Chairman Engel and Ranking 
Member McCaul, as well as Chairman Sherman, for their leadership and 
their support of this bill and bringing it before the House today for 
consideration.
  Behind me is a photograph taken on Monday night in Hong Kong's Chater 
Garden. It is estimated that 130,000 people took part in this rally 
calling on the United States Congress to pass the Hong Kong Human 
Rights and Democracy Act.
  The Hong Kong people need international support, and I am proud that 
the United States House of Representatives is standing in solidarity 
with Hong Kong in their struggle.
  While the protests were sparked by the extradition bill, the heart of 
the discontent is that many of Hong Kong's political leaders do not 
represent the people. Instead, Hong Kong's leaders are beholden to the 
Chinese Government. Millions of Hong Kongers would not have to protest 
in the streets if they could freely choose their political leaders.
  Since the 2014 umbrella movement protests, the ``one country, two 
systems'' framework has been rapidly eroding as free expression has 
been stifled and the space for democratic participation has been 
restricted. We have seen the prosecution and sentencing of prodemocracy 
leaders, the disqualification and removal of prodemocracy legislators, 
the abduction and arbitrary detention of booksellers, and the expelling 
of a Financial Times journalist.
  Hong Kong's high degree of autonomy is enshrined in the legally 
binding 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration and Hong Kong's Basic Law. 
The joint declaration is an international treaty, signed by the Chinese 
Government, and guarantees the protection of rights and a separate 
economic system for mainland China.
  I believe it is time for the United States to reconsider its policies 
toward Hong Kong.
  U.S.-Hong Kong relations are governed by the United States-Hong Kong 
Policy Act of 1992 that commits the United States to treating Hong Kong 
as a separate customs territory from the rest of China as long as Hong 
Kong remains sufficiently autonomous. The Hong Kong Human Rights and 
Democracy Act would require the Secretary of State to certify, on an 
annual basis, whether Hong Kong continues to warrant special treatment 
different from mainland China under U.S. law.
  It is time we put the Chinese Government on annual notice that 
further erosion of autonomy or a crackdown will cause the city, which 
serves as an important financial haven for wealthy Chinese elites, to 
lose its special economic, financial, and trade arrangement with the 
United States.
  Further, the legislation authorizes sanctions against individuals who 
violate human rights and states that Hong Kong visa applicants should 
not be denied entry to the United States based on politically motivated 
arrests based on their protest activities.
  To be clear, we stand together with the people of Hong Kong and, 
indeed, all the people of China when we express our concerns about the 
human rights violations of the Hong Kong and Chinese Governments.
  Over the years, Hong Kong has prospered and become the financial 
center of Asia because of its strong commitment to the rule of law, 
good governance, human rights, and open economic system. We must use 
our leverage to help the people of Hong Kong in their struggle to 
secure a democratic future that protects Hong Kong's autonomy and way 
of life.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support this legislation, and I urge all 
of my colleagues to support this legislation.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers on this side, 
so I yield myself such time as I may consume for the purpose of 
closing.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Smith for introducing this legislation.
  Thirty years since Tiananmen Square and Chinese authorities are still 
turning to violence and intimidation to crush dissent and attack basic 
freedoms. With this important legislation, we send a clear signal that 
the United States stands with the people of Hong Kong.
  Mr. Speaker, I hope all Members will join me in supporting the 
passage of this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.