  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, the passage of the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy 
Act today will once again demonstrate our support for the people of 
Hong Kong. The House passed our version of the bill several weeks ago, 
and this version passed the Senate last night as well, demonstrating, 
without a doubt, that the U.S. Congress stands with the people of Hong 
Kong even during a particularly troubling time.
  We are seeing the escalation of violence in unprecedented ways, 
indiscriminate use of force against students, and troubling reports of 
Chinese forces directing and manipulating the security forces in Hong 
Kong.
  However, as Joshua Wong said when he was last here with us on Capitol 
Hill just a few weeks ago, the ``people of Hong Kong will never walk 
alone.'' That is a quote. Never has this been truer than today.
  Although the abuses and injustices that have been endured by the 
people of Hong Kong are clear and evident to everyone, the policy 
challenge that this presents for the United States is far more nuanced.
  It is my expectation that, when implementing this legislation, the 
Secretary of State will understand congressional intent that this 
legislation is designed to help the U.S. Government and the U.S. 
Congress better evaluate the erosion of Hong Kong's autonomy and, 
ultimately, stem the tide of China's aggressive behavior toward the 
people of Hong Kong.
  Our objective is not to punish Hong Kong, but to help preserve and 
protect Hong Kong's autonomy in the face of Beijing's flagrant 
disregard for ``one country, two systems,'' which they had promised. As 
such, we believe it is in the national security interest of the United 
States to protect the autonomy of Hong Kong.
  It is with that intent that this entire legislative exercise has been 
undertaken. I hope that in evaluating how to apply the mandates in this 
bill, this administration, and any future administration, will give the 
best interest of the people of Hong Kong the highest consideration.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

[[Page H9093]]

  

  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  First of all, I want to thank the distinguished chairman and the 
ranking member, Mr. McCaul, for their strong support for this effort, 
both bills that are up today.
  And I would also especially like to thank the Speaker for her 
leadership as well.
  Mr. Speaker, since the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre 30 years ago, I 
have had the privilege of working with colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle, including, and especially, Speaker Pelosi,  Jim McGovern, my 
good friend--and he is the chairman of the China Commission, and I am 
ranking member--and Congressman Frank Wolf, a former Member who was 
tenacious in his fight for human rights, the rule of law, and democracy 
for the people of China.
  We have always believed that every person deserves better than the 
brutality so many endure in the systematic violations of their 
universally recognized human rights. China's ruthless dictators do not 
agree, and they are driven--they are obsessed--to tighten their 
control.
  Today, Mr. Speaker, Hong Kong is burning. The status quo is no 
longer. The brutal government crackdown on democracy activists has 
escalated. Tragically, under President Xi Jinping, human rights abuse 
throughout China has significantly worsened, including the pervasive 
use of torture, religious persecution, human trafficking, and genocide 
against Muslim Uighurs.
  Last month, Mr. Speaker, President Xi ominously warned of even more 
brutal violence to come in Hong Kong, threatening ``crushed bodies and 
shattered bones.''
  And the Hong Kong Government, itself, prefers bullets and batons over 
peaceful and political dialog that would address the Hong Kong people's 
rightful grievances.
  That is a sad and disgusting reality, and it is what the Chinese 
Government, however, does best: suppress, repress, torture, kill, and 
censor.
  With the passage of the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act, the 
United States Congress is making it clear that beating, torturing, and 
jailing democracy activists is absolutely wrong. We stand in solidarity 
with the people of Hong Kong. There will be strong sanctions, other 
ramifications, for this crackdown, for this abuse of power.
  The people of Hong Kong have feared for their freedom for a long 
time.

  In 2014, Mr. Speaker, I met with Martin Lee and Anson Chan, two 
titans of Hong Kong's democracy movement. They and Scott Flipse, of the 
China Commission, and I met in my office for hours as we discussed the 
Chinese Communist Party's growing influence and their attempts that had 
already begun to degrade autonomy and human rights in Hong Kong.
  That is, Mr. Speaker, the genesis of this bill and our 5-year effort 
to push back on Beijing's pernicious interference in Hong Kong.
  In the midst of the 2014 Umbrella Movement, I first introduced, 
joined by Speaker Pelosi, the first Hong Kong Human Rights and 
Democracy Act. My CECC co-chair, Senator Brown of Ohio, introduced the 
same bill in the Senate.
  Over the years, in 2015 and 2017, Senator Rubio and I upgraded the 
bill to reflect the kidnapping of book sellers, the disqualification of 
elected lawmakers, and the political prosecutions of Joshua Wong, 
Nathan Law, Benny Tai, and many others. However, every time, every 
single time we pushed for passage, there was vigorous opposition from 
diplomats, so-called experts, committee chairs, and U.S. business 
interests in Hong Kong.
  So passage of this legislation is long overdue.
  My House bill, cosponsored by the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. 
McGovern), my good friend and colleague, and 46 other bipartisan 
cosponsors passed last month on October 15.
  Today, we consider a final bill derived from working with our 
colleagues in the United States Senate. Specifically, the act directs 
the Secretary of State to report and certify to Congress, annually, 
whether Hong Kong continues to deserve special treatment under U.S. 
law, different from Mainland China, in such matters as trade, customs, 
sanctions enforcement, law enforcement cooperation, and protection of 
human rights and the rule of law.
  It directs the State Department not to deny entry visas based 
primarily on the applicant's arrest or detention for participating in 
nonviolent protest activities in Hong Kong.
  It requires, for the next 7 years, an annual report from the Commerce 
Department on whether Hong Kong Government adequately enforces U.S. 
export controls and sanctions laws, including on those goods and 
services transshipped to North Korea, Iran, or other countries relating 
to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, narcotics 
trafficking, and more.
  It requires an assessment of whether U.S. origin items, including 
software, technology, and services, have been transferred from Hong 
Kong to China in violation of U.S. law and have been used by China for 
mass surveillance, predictive policing, or for the so-called social 
credit system.
  I know some Members might be wondering: What is the social credit 
system? It is a ubiquitous, totalitarian, ``brave new world'' system 
scheduled for implementation by 2020 that uses public records, online 
activity, and other tools of surveillance to aggregate data on every 
Chinese citizen and business and use that data to monitor, shape, and 
rate financial, social, religious, or political behaviors.
  The bill requires the President to submit a strategy to Congress, to 
protect U.S. citizens and businesses in Hong Kong from the erosion of 
autonomy and the rule of law because of actions taken by the Chinese 
Government.
  It requires the President to identify and sanction persons in Hong 
Kong or in Mainland China responsible for extrajudicial rendition and 
gross violations of internationally recognized human rights.
  The Chinese Government warns us repeatedly not to interfere in 
China's internal affairs, but the only interference we see is Beijing's 
meddling in the democratic freedoms of Hong Kong. All I see and this 
body sees, my fellow colleagues, is Beijing's failure to honor the 
promises made in the 1984 Sino-British declaration, an international 
treaty. All we see is Beijing's failure to honor the promises of Hong 
Kong's Basic Law.
  We cannot avert our eyes to what is happening in Hong Kong. We cannot 
silence our voices when the rule of law, democracy, human rights, free 
speech, and autonomy are being threatened in Hong Kong. We must remain 
steadfast in support of the people of Hong Kong.
  The whole world has a stake in a peaceful and just resolution in Hong 
Kong. The passage of the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act is an 
important signal that this Congress, Democrat and Republican alike, 
House and Senate, considers Hong Kong's freedoms and autonomy a 
critical interest of the United States and the international community.
  In Hong Kong, they encourage each other to keep pressing forward with 
the phrase ``Jia you.'' So today, I say to you, all of you in Hong 
Kong: ``Jia you.'' Your cause is a noble, one and you will not be 
forgotten.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Pelosi), our Speaker of the House, who has been very, 
very active in Hong Kong freedom.
  Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman for 
yielding.
  I salute him and Mr. McCaul, the ranking member of the Foreign 
Affairs Committee. To you, Mr. Chairman and Mr. McCaul, thank you for 
affording this opportunity to vote on the Hong Kong Human Rights and 
Democracy Act.
  This is a proud day for the U.S. Congress, for our values of freedom 
and justice, and for the people of Hong Kong.
  For 6 months, the people of Hong Kong have stirred the hearts of all 
freedom-loving people with their extraordinary outpouring of courage 
and their refusal to relinquish their demand for democracy, the 
democratic freedoms, and the rule of law which was promised more than 
two decades ago.
  Today, the Congress is sending an unmistakable message to the world 
that the United States stands in solidarity

[[Page H9094]]

with the freedom-loving people of Hong Kong, and we fully support their 
fight for freedom.
  We salute Chairman McGovern, a leading voice for human rights in 
China and around the world, our Congressional-Executive Commission on 
China chair and also chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Smith, just listening to him talk 
about we are into our third generation of freedom-loving people in Hong 
Kong.
  I am so glad Mr. Smith acknowledged the work of our distinguished 
former colleague, Frank Wolf, who was so, so very much a part and still 
continues to be a spiritual leader to us in this regard.
  We have worked with Martin Lee and Anson Chan way back when and--so 
late 1980s, early 1990s--then into this new century with another 
generation; and now, three generations, Martin Lee still being 
involved, but with Joshua Wong and Nathan Wong and all of the young 
participants who are there, because it is a sad situation.
  In 1997, when the United Kingdom transferred Hong Kong to China, 
America was hopeful that the people of Hong Kong would achieve the 
``high degree of autonomy''--that is in quotes--``high degree of 
autonomy'' that they were promised. Today, it is beyond question that 
China has utterly broken that promise.
  America has been watching for years as the people of Hong Kong have 
been increasingly denied their full autonomy and faced with a cruel 
crackdown on their freedoms and an escalation of violence.
  Most recently, the violent attacks against students at Hong Kong 
Polytechnic University have shocked the world as unconscionable and 
unacceptable.
  More than 1,000 young people were denied food, water, first aid. 
Scores were sent to the hospital for hypothermia after attempting to 
escape through a sewer, and hundreds now languish in jail cells.
  Right now, frightened parents of the students who remain on campus 
are holding vigil outside, praying that their children will be safe, 
clutching signs reading: ``Save the kids. Don't kill our children,'' 
and, ``They are children of God. Let them go.''
  In the Congress, Democrats and Republicans stand united with the 
protestors and with the people of Hong Kong. We have stood united in a 
bipartisan way.
  It has been a very unifying issue for us, whether we are talking 
about the autonomy of Tibet that the Chinese are trying to destroy, the 
culture, the language, and the region of Tibet; the Uighurs, where 1, 
2, 3, maybe 3 million Uighurs are under education camps, which the 
Chinese Government says they really enjoy being in--Oh, really?--or 
human rights violations, suppression of human rights throughout all of 
China.

                              {time}  1545

  If America does not speak out for human rights in China because of 
commercial interests, we lose all moral authority to speak out on human 
rights elsewhere.
  Since Tiananmen Square, many of us in a bipartisan way have been 
fighting this fight, and we have seen that commercial interests always 
win the fight. It has always for them been about money.
  To those who take the repressive Chinese Government's side, I say: 
What does it profit a person to gain the whole world and suffer the 
loss of his soul?
  Today the House is proud to once again pass the bicameral, bipartisan 
Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act to reaffirm America's 
commitment to human rights, democracy, and the rule of law in the face 
of Beijing's crackdown.
  I see we have been joined by the distinguished ranking member of the 
Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. McCaul. I thank him for his leadership 
in bringing this legislation to the floor. I acknowledged him earlier, 
along with our distinguished chairman, Mr. Engel.
  We are proud to pass the Senate version of Chairman McGovern's 
Protect Hong Kong Act to suspend sales on dangerous munitions to the 
Hong Kong police, and we also salute Senator Merkley in his leadership 
in passing that on the Senate floor.
  The future of Hong Kong, the future of autonomy, freedom, and justice 
for millions is at stake. America must take a stand with Hong Kong. I 
am so pleased that we are making our statement in Congress in the House 
and in the Senate on both sides of the aisle, Democrats and Republicans 
unified in speaking out for democracy.
  I urge a ``yes'' vote on both of these bills.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield as much time as he may 
consume to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. McCaul), the ranking member of 
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  I rise today in support of the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy 
Act. Two months ago I had the opportunity to join a press conference 
with Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Chairman Engel, my colleague, Chris Smith, 
and Hong Kong prodemocracy activists Joshua Wong, Nathan Law, and 
Denise Ho to denounce China's authoritarian brutality.
  I said it then and I will say it again; today we stand here not as 
Republicans or Democrats, but as Americans united in our strong support 
for Hong Kong.
  And I would like to take this opportunity to speak directly to the 
people of Hong Kong, who I know are watching this right now. America 
stands with you, and America will always support you. We hear you sing 
our national anthem. We see you carrying our American flag. This is a 
battle between democracy versus dictatorship, liberty versus tyranny, 
and freedom versus oppression.
  This bill sends a clear message to China that there will be 
consequences to the ruthless and brutal actions. Congress, the United 
States, and the world will not stand by idly as the Chinese Communist 
Party fights for itself and not its own people.
  Again, I want to thank the authors of this bill. I am proud to be a 
part of this movement, this cause. And we have seen quite a bit of 
response on social media on this bill coming directly from the people 
of Hong Kong to the Members who are on this floor saying thank you for 
standing up for us.
  That is democracy in action. That is what this country stands for. 
And it is a proud moment, I think, for both sides of the aisle as we 
are going through this time in our history to be able to stand together 
for democracy and such a great movement and cause for freedom.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern), an important leader on this issue.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 1838, the Hong 
Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act.
  I want to say thank you to Speaker Nancy Pelosi for her incredible 
leadership in ensuring that the House made a timely and unequivocal 
statement in support of the Hong Kong people at this very important and 
vital time.
  I would also like to thank Congressman Chris Smith of New Jersey, as 
well as Chairman Engel and Ranking Member McCaul for bringing this 
legislation to the floor today. I also appreciate the leadership of 
Senators Rubio, Cardin, and Menendez for all that they have done.
  Mr. Speaker, in recent months, the situation in Hong Kong has 
worsened as the Chinese and Hong Kong Governments have escalated 
repression against the protest movement and provoked more violence and 
chaos.
  The recent attacks on university campuses, including last weekend 
against students at Hong Kong Polytechnic University raises disturbing 
questions on the strategy of the Chinese and Hong Kong Governments. 
Protestors were violently assaulted and not even allowed to escape 
without facing a barrage of tear gas and police brutality.
  It is long past time for the Chinese and Hong Kong Governments to try 
a different approach that respects the people of Hong Kong and restores 
the people's faith in the autonomy of the government. That is what 
political leaders do, they use dialogue and negotiation to achieve 
their goals. The demands of the protestors are reasonable, and an 
independent inquiry into the police violence is more than justified.
  In what was initially a positive development, this week the Hong Kong 
High Court decided that the government's recent facemask ban was 
unconstitutional. Unfortunately, the fierce

[[Page H9095]]

response by Beijing to that ruling and claim of sole jurisdiction over 
constitutional review almost certainly violates the basic law, subverts 
the rule of law, and further undermines whatever trust the Hong Kong 
people have left in their governing institutions.
  If the Hong Kong court system is not sufficiently autonomous, then it 
is difficult, if not impossible, to argue that Hong Kong is 
sufficiently autonomous. It should be clear by now that Hong Kong's 
leaders are beholden to the Chinese Government, and the independence of 
the judiciary is being undermined.

  The ``one country, two systems'' framework enshrined in the 1984 
Sino-British Joint Declaration and Hong Kong's basic law has been 
rapidly eroding and has now reached a point when the United States has 
no choice but to modify its policy toward Hong Kong.
  It is time we put the Chinese Government on annual notice that 
further erosion of autonomy or a crackdown will cause the city, which 
serves as an important financial haven for wealthy Chinese elites, to 
lose its special economic, financial and trade arrangement with the 
United States.
  Further, the legislation authorizes sanctions against individuals who 
violate human rights, and states that Hong Kong visa applicants should 
not be denied entry to the U.S. on the basis of politically-motivated 
arrests due to their protest activities.
  Today a Chinese official said that they will take strong opposing 
measures if the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy bill passes.
  Well, I have a message for Beijing: The United States will not stand 
idly by while the Chinese Government stifles free expression and 
tightens its grip on Hong Kong.
  Over the years, Hong Kong has prospered and become the financial 
center of Asia because of its strong commitment to the rule of law, 
good governance, human rights, and an open economic system.
  We must use our leverage to help the people of Hong Kong in their 
struggle to secure a democratic future that protects Hong Kong's 
autonomy and way of life.
  I am proud to support this legislation, which we will pass today with 
an overwhelmingly bipartisan majority.
  I now call upon the President of the United States, who has been way 
too silent on this issue, to sign the bill into law.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Yoho), the ranking member of the Asia, the 
Pacific, and Nonproliferation Subcommittee.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I just want to give a shout-out to the 
bipartisan nature of this bill. Both sides are working strongly on 
this. Chairman Engel, thank you. Mr. McGovern, thank you. Chris, thank 
you for doing what you have done. It is true leadership. And to see 
Speaker Pelosi down here, I think it speaks loudly to how America 
stands on this.
  In September, I, too, had the honor of meeting with a few of the 
courageous leaders of Hong Kong student unions. They were advocating 
for peace, liberty, and freedom. These are basic innate human rights 
that have been taken away from Hong Kongers by the authoritarian 
overreach of the Chinese Communist Party Complex, which is comprised of 
Xi Jinping, the Politburo of the Chinese Communist Party, and 
leadership within the People's Liberation Army.
  As protests in Hong Kong continue into the sixth month, Xi Jinping 
still refuses to take responsibility for this unrest. The cause is 
simple: theft of basic rights and freedoms, not a separatist movement 
or foreign influence. Members of this body have been accused of being 
the cause of the protests. Speaker Pelosi was named individually. 
Senator Schumer, Marco Rubio, and I were named as the cause of the Hong 
Kong protests.
  This disdain was sparked by the introduction of the infamous 
extradition bill by Chief Executive Carrie Lam at the command of the 
CCPC and has grown into what are known as the five demands. Had Xi 
Jinping and his cohorts just honored the 1997 international agreement 
between Great Britain and China, which allows Hong Kong to remain a 
self-ruling, semi-autonomous province, none of this would have 
occurred.
  Not upholding one's contract has consequences. Disregarding contracts 
breaks trust and dishonors the country, its leaders, and its people. 
The narrative that the Chinese Communist Party Complex has created for 
itself is that China cannot and should not be trusted and that the 
party will go to great lengths to dismantle free societies in their 
backyard.
  The survival of democracy and freedom exposes the failures of 
communism. Xi Jinping, along with his cohorts' lack of acknowledgment 
of their failures, whether from deliberate denial or complete 
ignorance, was demonstrated by Mr. Han Zheng, China's Vice Premier, who 
said he believes antigovernment protests are damaging the ``one 
country, two systems'' formula, and again, are caused by a separatist 
movement and foreign influence.
  While sitting next to Chief Executive Carrie Lam, he continued, ``We 
firmly support the Special Administrative Region Government to adopt 
more proactive and more effective measures'' to solve the social 
problems.
  Since I wrote this, they have come out and said they expect to have 
brutality ramped up to bring these people under control. The proactive 
and more effective measures referred to by Mr. Han Zheng are 
intimidation, brutality, imprisonment and death.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman's time has expired.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield the gentleman from 
Florida an additional 1 minute.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, as the international community is well aware, 
Beijing's standard procedure for dealing with unrest is well 
documented. In the end, Xi Jinping will leave no stone unturned in his 
quest to destroy democracy. The party will spare no one in their fight 
to protect communist ideals and power. Chief Executive Lam will be 
Beijing's sacrificial lamb and removed for two reasons: one, the 
Communist Party must save face and have a scapegoat; and two, Xi 
Jinping and the Communist Party must maintain their authority and not 
show weakness.
  Communism fears free thought and cannot survive in it. And I am 
honored to stand with the Hong Kong protestors in their important 
cause. I urge my colleagues to also stand with the courageous 
individuals in Hong Kong and pass the Hong Kong Human Rights and 
Democracy Act.
  ``Jia you'' to our Hong Kong friends standing up for your basic human 
rights.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield the balance of my time to the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Sherman), and I ask unanimous consent 
that he be allowed to control the time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New York?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield as much time as he may 
consume to the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Hill).
  Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New 
Jersey, my good friend, for yielding, and I have to thank him for his 
decades of service and leadership here for free expression and for 
liberty in Hong Kong.
  I was moved by the Speaker's tribute and appreciate her 30 years of 
work there. I thank Mr. Engel for his leadership, and, of course, my 
good friend from California, who now is controlling the time for the 
majority.

                              {time}  1600

  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the Hong Kong Human 
Rights and Democracy Act and stand in solidarity with the people of 
Hong Kong.
  For 6 months, we have witnessed Hong Kong citizens protest for their 
right to live in a free and fair political system, an expectation they 
fully have. Over the last several weeks, we have witnessed the 
government become increasingly violent as it cracks down on protests. 
It is sad to see death and destruction come to this beautiful and 
energetic place.
  For three decades, I have traveled to Hong Kong and witnessed their 
innovative spirit and their extraordinary work ethic. In fact, Hong 
Kong was the model for the post-World War II Asian

[[Page H9096]]

Tiger growth and prosperity now shared across the region. When a 
proponent of welfare statism queried progrowth economist Melvyn B. 
Krauss, ``But how many Hong Kongs can the world have?'' the professor 
responded, ``As many as the world will allow itself.''
  The 7 million citizens of Hong Kong are looking to us for a voice and 
for leadership, and with today's vote, we will deliver. I call on 
President Trump to sign this important measure into law with expediency 
and show the world that America supports the people of Hong Kong, their 
right to free expression, and their democratic governance guaranteed 
under the five-decade arrangement agreed to in 1997 by the People's 
Republic of China and the United Kingdom.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Smith for his leadership, and I urge all of 
my colleagues to support this measure.
  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I will close when the gentleman has closed 
on his side, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of 
my time.
  Mr. Speaker, the United States' and the world's response to the 
Tiananmen Square massacre 30 years ago and the massive crackdown that 
was unleashed after that, because of that weak response, has enabled 
unrelenting and pervasive human rights abuses ever since.
  Had we been strong and predictable and said that human rights matter, 
had we linked it to MFN, most-favored-nation status, and stuck to it, 
we would have had a different China today that, at least more than it 
does today, would have respected the rule of law and human rights.
  We cannot recommit that mistake by being weak and vacillating in the 
face of this terrible, terrible attack on the people of Hong Kong and 
on their autonomy.
  Remember, what we are asking Xi Jinping, Carrie Lam, and all the 
other leaders in Hong Kong and in Beijing to do is just honor your 
promises; you made solemn promises that you are violating now with 
impunity.
  We have to be very clear that if we enable that, if we look the other 
way, then we become unwittingly, perhaps, but complicit in this 
terrible degrading of the human rights situation for the people of Hong 
Kong.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to remind my colleagues as well, and I think we 
all know this, but this bill is the work of so many who deeply care, 
many Members across the aisle, bipartisanship at a time when that seems 
to be pretty much a rare commodity, but when it comes to Hong Kong, we 
are all there joined together arm-in-arm speaking out on behalf of 
these tremendous leaders who suffer and go to prison and endure tear 
gas and worse each and every day.
  I want to mention some of the staff members, and there are many. When 
we had the bill up on the 15th, I mentioned even more. But these 
members were instrumental in working on the legislation over the past 5 
years. Remember, this is the fourth time I introduced it, and I have 
worked with Marco Rubio and others. This is a bicameral and bipartisan 
bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to thank former staff directors of the 
Congressional-Executive Commission on China, Paul Protic and Elise 
Anderson, for their important work on Hong Kong and China. I want to 
thank Piero Tozzi of my staff for his focus on human rights in China 
and around the world. I particularly want to mention the contribution 
made to this legislation by Scott Flipse of the CECC, the 
Congressional-Executive Commission on China.
  In 2014, Dr. Flipse first convinced me. We had met, and he said that 
we have a problem in Hong Kong and that we need to address it. I was 
co-chair of the China Commission. Then we had meetings with Chinese 
leaders and Hong Kong leaders. We began to see that what was taking 
place in somewhat slow motion before our eyes was that there was a 
long-term Beijing plan to undermine Hong Kong's autonomy and that the 
U.S. needed to focus its efforts on countering that plan. He has been a 
stalwart advocate for the people of Hong Kong ever since, and I, again, 
want to thank him for his critical contributions to this legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume 
for the purpose of closing.
  We vote today on S. 1838, but this is not just a Senate bill. This is 
a bill very similar to the one introduced in this House by the 
gentleman from New Jersey. This House has already voted on this bill 
and supported it overwhelmingly. Today, once again, we show the world 
our commitment to the people of Hong Kong and to the preservation and 
protection of Hong Kong's autonomy, given China's aggressive attempts 
to undermine the ``one country, two systems'' approach.
  With this important legislation, we send a clear signal that the 
United States will hold those undermining Hong Kong's rights and 
autonomy accountable and that the American people stand shoulder to 
shoulder with the people of Hong Kong. With few exceptions, the people 
of Hong Kong have fought for their rights through peaceable protest, 
and we stand with them.
  Mr. Speaker, I hope all Members will join me in supporting the 
passage of this bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.