  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, in a moment here, as my colleagues gather, 
we hope to pass the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act.
  I first acknowledge all of the people who worked so hard on it--our 
staffs, obviously, and, in addition, Senators Cardin, Risch, Menendez, 
and over 50 cosponsors, many of whom will join us here this evening. I 
also thank Leaders McConnell and Schumer for their support in helping 
us get here. I thank Chairman Crapo, who has helped us make some 
important changes at the end that will make the sanctions easier to 
implement.
  A lot of people have been watching on the news the protests that have 
been going on in Hong Kong and are wondering as to, perhaps, the depths 
of what it is all about.
  When the United Kingdom handed Hong Kong over to China, they signed 
an agreement that is known as the Joint Declaration. It basically 
guarantees a high degree of autonomy and freedom of the people of Hong 
Kong. As a result of that agreement, the United States has treated 
commerce and trade with Hong Kong differently than it has its 
commercial and trade activity with the mainland of China. What has 
happened over the last few years is the steady effort, on the part of 
Chinese authorities, to erode that autonomy and those freedoms.
  The most recent protests really began with a proposal to pass an 
extradition law that would allow the Chinese Government to basically 
have arrested and extradite someone in Hong Kong over to the mainland. 
There was a huge pushback against that, and protests emerged as a 
result of it. Even though the Government of Hong Kong has pulled out 
from pursuing that law, the protests have continued because the people 
of Hong Kong have seen what is coming. They see the steady effort to 
erode their autonomy and their freedoms.
  The response by the Hong Kong authorities, with its having been under 
tremendous pressure from Beijing, has been that of violence and 
repression. So far, over 5,000 people have been arrested in Hong Kong. 
The youngest has been 12 years of age. The oldest has been 82. Hundreds 
more have been injured by violence committed by police authorities but 
also by street gangs--criminals, thugs--who have been empowered and 
encouraged by the Chinese authorities.
  This effort by China to exert control and remove autonomy continues 
unabated. Here are some examples. There was a law that was passed that 
banned wearing masks, and a Hong Kong court ruled that the ban was 
unconstitutional. The so-called National People's Congress in Beijing 
today ruled that Hong Kong courts have no authority--no power--to 
review Hong Kong Government legislation. Under pressure from Beijing, 
the Government of Hong Kong threatened to cancel the November 24 
elections--elections, by the way, that China has been interfering in. 
China has pushed to ban critics, like Joshua Wong, from running. Seven 
candidates who are running have been attacked by street gangs during 
this campaign, and two candidates have been arrested while campaigning.
  And now for the latest move, China is pushing the Hong Kong 
Government to pass what they call the new national security law--a law 
that would allow them to arrest political critics and opponents. If 
this passes, if that happens, that is the very definition of control 
and de facto proof of all loss of autonomy.
  By the way, China is also pushing for something very ominous. They 
call it patriotic education. What China is really pushing for in Hong 
Kong is moving from ``one country, two systems'' to ``one country, one 
system''--the Chinese system.
  So the bill that we will bring up here in a moment, with tremendous 
bipartisan support, requires five quick things that I will touch on.
  First, its most important element is that it requires the Secretary 
of State to annually certify whether Hong Kong warrants being treated 
differently than China. If Hong Kong is no longer autonomous--and that 
is the rationale for different treatment--then, they should no longer 
receive that treatment.
  It says that students in Hong Kong shouldn't be barred from entering 
the United States or getting a visa to study here, for example, because 
they have been the subject of a politically motivated arrest or 
detention.
  It says that for the next 7 years, the Secretary of Commerce is going 
to report on whether export controls and sanction laws are being 
enforced by the Government of Hong Kong or whether

[[Page S6651]]

China is using Hong Kong as a back door to evade export controls and 
sanctions.
  It says that if Hong Kong ultimately returns and passes that 
extradition bill that China wants, the President has to present a plan 
to protect Americans from this law.
  Last but not least, it mandates that the President identify and 
sanction foreigners the President determines, based on credible 
information, who are responsible for extraditions, for arbitrary 
detention, for torture, or for forced confessions inside of Hong Kong 
or any other human rights violations in Hong Kong.
  By the way, it would also allow blocking the assets of these persons 
if those assets are located here in the United States.
  So, in a moment here, as we continue to gather, we are waiting the 
arrival of companion legislation.
  I yield the floor because I know we have lot of important sponsors 
that are here who want to speak on the subject.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. McSALLY). The Senator from Idaho.
  Mr. RISCH. Madam President, first of all, this is an important step 
that we are taking here. This is a matter that we have been discussing 
for a long time. There has been a lot of action on it, and I want to 
thank Senator Rubio and Senator Cardin, who are the lead supporters of 
this bill and who have, on behalf of the committee, done yeoman's work 
getting it together and getting the bipartisan compromise to get the 
language here. Also, virtually all members of the committee have had 
fingerprints on this bill, and so in that regard, I think it is going 
to pass quite handily.
  I want to thank the Banking staff, particularly my colleague from 
Idaho, Senator Crapo, who, of course, has the expertise--the Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee--on these kinds of things on 
sanctions. They were very helpful in hammering out the language that we 
needed for the sanctions.
  I want to thank the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee 
staff, who were helpful.
  I want to thank the staff of the Foreign Relations Committee, who 
work for us--both the minority staff, Senator Menendez's staff, and my 
staff, the majority staff--for doing this and all of the people who 
worked on this. So thank you to all of you.
  Since June, millions of people in Hong Kong have taken to the streets 
protesting the erosion of their rights and freedoms.
  Hong Kong was supposed to maintain a high degree of autonomy after 
China regained sovereignty over the territory in 1997. This wasn't just 
a verbal understanding. This was in the treaty that China signed with 
Great Britain. However, since that time, China has gradually chipped 
away at Hong Kong's autonomy, and this is now becoming a real problem.
  China now refers to its treaty with Great Britain as ``a historical 
document,'' and says it is no longer bound by its terms. This is just 
one of many examples that show that the Chinese Government has no 
respect for the rule of law.
  After two decades of broken commitments, it is past time that we hold 
the Chinese Communist Party accountable. What it is doing in Hong Kong 
is just wrong.
  That is why I am proud to join Senator Rubio and Senator Cardin and 
all the others who have had hands on this bill in bringing the Hong 
Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act to the Senate floor. This bill is 
the result of a strong, strong bipartisan consensus that we must act in 
support of the Hong Kong people.
  Thank you all for helping. We will get to the unanimous consent here 
in a little bit.
  I yield the floor to Senator Cardin.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Maryland.
  Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, let me first thank Senator Rubio for his 
leadership on this issue and Senator Menendez and Senator Risch for 
their leadership in our committee and so many others who have been 
involved, because tonight we have a chance to reaffirm our commitment 
for human rights and democracy.
  That is exactly what our legislation does. It recognizes the fact 
that for 24 consecutive weeks, the people of Hong Kong have been asking 
for their basic democracy and freedom.
  On Monday, it was reported--just yesterday--that police fired 1,458 
rounds of tear gas, 1,391 rubber bullets, 325 beanbag rounds, and 265 
sponge grenades--that is just yesterday--on peaceful protesters.
  They are asking nothing more than to exercise the rights they were 
told would be protected to express their views and to be able to have 
democracy in Hong Kong, which is the way it was in the previous time.
  Senator Rubio and I introduced legislation, and the chairman and 
ranking member of the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Risch and 
Menendez, joined us, and we passed this bipartisan legislation on June 
13. It reaffirms the principles set forth in the United States-Hong 
Kong Policy Act of 1992, which supports democratization, human rights, 
and the autonomy of Hong Kong.
  Now, Senator Rubio already talked about this, but this is a very 
important thing. We gave Hong Kong a special status in its relationship 
with the United States that China does not enjoy, and we gave them that 
special status upon their protecting democracy and human rights in Hong 
Kong. That was the commitment.
  If they don't comply with that, this special status should no longer 
be available, and this legislation requires that we get information on 
a regular basis as to whether China is respecting the rights that we 
put in our legislation in 1992, that they notify us on a regular 
timeframe. That is an important point, because if they don't, we 
shouldn't give them that protected status.

  Secondly, it identifies persons who suppress basic freedoms, similar 
to the Magnitsky Act sanctions. Those that are taking away the human 
rights of the people of Hong Kong would be subject to the same type of 
visa restrictions to visit America and to use our banking system. That 
makes a great deal of sense, and we know that is pretty effective.
  So it is time that we back up our words and our commitment to 
supporting Hong Kong's democratization, human rights, and autonomy with 
action. Let's make sure the people of Hong Kong know that the U.S. 
Congress and the American people stand in solidarity with them, as the 
Chinese authorities, as we speak, are repressing the legitimate rights 
of the people of Hong Kong. We can stand with the people of Hong Kong 
for democracy and human rights by our actions this evening.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New Jersey.
  Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I rise in support of the motion that 
shortly will be made by our colleague, the Senator from Florida. I want 
to congratulate Senator Cardin and him for their leadership in this 
regard. I appreciate the chairman and myself having joined them and 
moving this expeditiously through the committee, and I am looking 
forward to its critical passage on the floor. Time is of the essence.
  The people of Hong Kong are fighting for their lives. Six months ago, 
millions of Hong Kong citizens took to the streets to peacefully 
protest the erosion of their democracy and their rights. Now, half a 
year later, we find mounting anger and unrest, with the violence 
against students and protesters--most dramatically, in the crackdown on 
Hong Kong Polytechnic University--only getting worse.
  People are being shot. Universities are being burned. The violence 
perpetrated by the authorities in Hong Kong and, by extension, Beijing 
are turning the city into a battlefield.
  This is not the Hong Kong that any of us want to see. The special 
character of Hong Kong is one of the world's great success stories. The 
vibrancy of the people of Hong Kong, especially its young people and 
the rising generation of leaders standing up for democracy and self-
governance, should inspire all of us.
  We admire Hong Kong's success as a burgeoning economic powerhouse, 
and we admire the vibrant and autonomous civil society and civic life 
that has flourished under the ``one country, two systems'' principle.
  Hong Kong is one of the remarkable success stories of the Indo-
Pacific--one

[[Page S6652]]

of the most remarkable success stories of China and the Chinese 
people--and it is a success worth protecting.
  I call on the police to act professionally and to treat its fellow 
citizens with respect and restraint. We call for Beijing and the Hong 
Kong authorities to address the noble and legitimate aspirations of the 
people of Hong Kong.
  In these turbulent times, the Congress of the United States must lead 
with our values. We must stand on the side of freedom and human 
dignity, and we must send a clear and uncompromising statement that 
America stands with the people of Hong Kong in their quest to maintain 
their self-governance and autonomy, to safeguard their human rights, to 
exercise their democratic freedom, and to determine their own future.
  The House of Representatives already passed their version of this 
bill, and the situation in Hong Kong grows more tenuous by the day. 
That is why the United States should and must act today.
  I look forward to the passage of this bill without delay. Let us work 
to hold China accountable for the erosion of democracy in Hong Kong, 
and let us together send a message to the people of Hong Kong that 
their cries for democracy and freedom have been heard through both 
Chambers of the U.S. Congress, and that America stands with them in 
their call for justice and self-determination.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Arkansas.
  Mr. COTTON. Madam President, the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy 
Act is really about promises--making promises and keeping promises. 
Unfortunately, the Chinese Communist Party has a long history of making 
promises but not keeping them.
  You can ask a rice farmer from Stuttgart. You can ask a software 
programmer from Fayetteville, a factory worker from Fort Smith, or a 
Christian missionary from Searcy.
  In this case, China promised in 1984 that it would uphold the ``one 
country, two systems'' approach to Hong Kong when it took over in 1997, 
a promise to preserve the freedoms that have made Hong Kong 
distinctive--the freedom to practice one's religion as one sees fit, to 
speak one's mind, and to participate in the political process.
  But that is just another promise they are on the verge of breaking. 
Apparently, the ``one country, two systems'' approach can't satisfy 
Beijing's rapacious appetite. They look at and covet Hong Kong's 
wealth, and they fear and loathe its freedom, which stands in shining 
contrast to the Orwellian oppression on the mainland. In fact, they 
fear that mainland Chinese might look across the bay and start to get 
ideas.
  So the Chinese Communist Party has been breaking its promises to Hong 
Kong and to the world, waging a brutal campaign to absorb Hong Kong 
into its dystopian, high-tech dictatorship.
  Hongkongers are bravely resisting in the face of this kind of 
escalating violence. In recent days, Hong Kong security forces have 
shot a protestor in the stomach. They have trapped hundreds of students 
in the university, using rubber bullets and tear gas on them. They have 
threatened them with mass arrest.
  Beijing's propagandists have been hinting that even harsher measures 
are on the way.
  An article in the party-controlled China Daily argues that Beijing 
must accelerate Hong Kong's integration with the mainland and then 
reeducate Hongkongers, just like they are doing on a mass scale to 1 
million Uighurs in concentration camps in Xinjiang.
  I said this in the summer when the protests started. Let me say it 
again. It would be a grave mistake of historic proportion--surpassing 
the massacre of Tiananmen Square--if Beijing were to impose martial 
law, occupy, or otherwise crackdown on Hong Kong.
  But the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act is about more than 
China making and breaking promises. It is also about the United States 
finally enforcing China's promises.
  We have a shot to avert catastrophe, protect the people of Hong Kong, 
and to finally enforce Beijing promises or hold them accountable for 
breaking those promises.
  Very soon, the Senate will pass this legislation on a unanimous, 
bipartisan basis to give you a sense of sentiment in the Congress. This 
legislation requires the Secretary of State to certify Hong Kong's 
autonomy from the mainland each year. Otherwise, they will lose the 
special privileges that U.S. law currently grants to Hong Kong.
  The bill will freeze the assets and travel of officials who are 
responsible for abducting Hongkongers, like journalists, booksellers 
who have been vanishing without a trace since 2017, and it will ensure 
that pro-democracy protesters cannot be denied visas to the United 
States despite their specious arrests. But if the Hong Kong Chinese 
Communist Party will simply pull back from the brink, if they will keep 
their promises, if they will respect their one-country, two-system 
approach, none of this will happen.
  So Beijing has a promise. Keep its promises, or give Americans and 
the world one more reason to treat China like an outlaw regime.
  Choose wisely, Mr. General Secretary Xi.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Illinois.
  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I want to thank my colleagues, Senators 
Rubio, Cardin, Menendez, and Representative Chris Smith for moving the 
Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act in both Chambers, legislation 
I was proud to cosponsor. With the situation deteriorating by the hour 
in Hong Kong, the passage of legislation could not be more timely. I 
urge my colleagues in the House to take action quickly without delay. 
This bill sends an important message of bipartisan support from the 
U.S. Congress for the democratic aspirations of the broad majority of 
the people of Hong Kong.
  Some of you may realize that we, just a few months ago, celebrated 
the 30th anniversary of the bloody crackdown that ended the peaceful 
democracy movement in Tiananmen Square. Who among us can forget those 
riveting weeks during which there was real hope and possibility of 
China opening its political system--the Goddess of Democracy statue 
modeled after our own Statue of Liberty--and, sadly, the jarring image 
of the protestor that was standing to try to block the onslaught of a 
tank?
  The crude propaganda and disinformation used by Communist hardliners 
to brainwash young military conscripts to turn on their own people was 
both heartbreaking and infuriating. Remembering those days, we must not 
sit by idly and quietly and allow Hong Kong's freedoms to be similarly 
threatened.
  I have been moved by the courageousness of the pro-democracy 
protestors in the face of increasingly excessive use of force by the 
Hong Kong police in one of the most vibrant cities in the world. What 
exactly are Hong Kong protesters fighting for--the freedoms we in 
America take for granted every day--the freedom of assembly, suffrage, 
speech, due process, and rule of law. Rather than sitting down with the 
protesters, Hong Kong authorities have increasingly used excessive 
force instead of engaging in constructive dialogue. Yet, ultimately, I 
believe the Hong Kong Government and the protesters are capable of 
finding a solution, and I hope they do.
  Let me end by appealing to the leadership in China to show the 
courage to allow the continued prosperous democratic autonomy enjoyed 
by the people of Hong Kong. Hong Kong's continued special status is the 
sign of strength and confidence, not weakness.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Florida.
  Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Madam President, I rise today to speak about 
the greatest threat the United States faces in the next century, the 
threat of Communist China.
  I have been saying, for months, Communist China is not our friend. 
They are stealing our technology; refusing to open up their markets to 
foreign goods as required by the WTO; militarizing the South China Sea, 
even after promising President Obama they wouldn't; holding over 1 
million Uighurs in prison camps just for their religion; harvesting the 
organs of detainees against their will; and Communist China is 
intentionally pushing fentanyl into the United States, killing 
Americans every day.
  Communist China continues to strip the people of Hong Kong of their 
basic rights. I was the first Senator to visit

[[Page S6653]]

Hong Kong since the protests started nearly 6 months ago. I had the 
opportunity to meet with the protestors--students, parents, and 
grandparents--who are fighting to regain the freedom they were once 
promised. I heard their stories, horrible and frightening stories of 
police brutality, threats against individuals and their families, and 
mysterious disappearances.
  Six months in and no signs of Communist China loosening their grip--
their efforts to crack down on the protests in Hong Kong reflect their 
commitment to denying basic human rights and snuffing out any 
opposition to their totalitarian goals. We cannot stay silent. General 
Secretary of the Communist Party Xi is trying to be the dominant world 
power. It is Hong Kong now, then it will be Taiwan.
  Communist China believes that, in order for them to be stronger, 
other freedom-loving countries must be weaker. As Communist China 
becomes more and more aggressive, we must ask ourselves: Is this the 
next Tiananmen Square? We all remember that famous image. Times have 
changed, but one thing stays the same: Wherever totalitarian regimes 
exist, there will be brave freedom fighters who will stand up against 
injustice and stand for human rights. That is what we are seeing in 
Hong Kong today.

  Beijing soldiers have been appearing on the city streets, raising 
questions about the army's future role. Will Communist China once again 
use its military might to quash peaceful protests? Will they once again 
stand against those fighting for human rights and democracy? Will the 
United States stand by and allow this to happen?
  We are seeing Americans like Michael Bloomberg putting profits above 
human rights and propping up the Chinese Government by continuing to 
host huge events in Communist China. It is time for the world to stand 
and present a unified front against Communist China's aggression, and 
that starts with supporting the brave people of Hong Kong.
  We must do everything we can to communicate our commitment to 
democracy, freedom, and human rights. I am proud to stand in support of 
the Hong Kong Freedom and Democracy Act, which will give the United 
States more authority to reevaluate Beijing's influence on Hong Kong. 
This bill makes it clear that General Secretary of the Communist Party 
Xi needs to comply with what China agreed to in 1997. Communist China 
must give Hong Kong its autonomy, or the United States will continue to 
ramp up pressure on Communist China.
  We cannot underestimate this threat. We must be vigilant. We must be 
aggressive. America's role of fighting for freedom and liberty 
worldwide depends on it. The future of our children and grandchildren 
depends on it.
  To the brave and resilient people of Hong Kong, the United States is 
with you. Your fight will not be in vain, and it does not go unnoticed.
  And to Communist China and General Secretary of the Communist Party 
Xi, consider your next moves carefully. The world is watching.
  I won't stop fighting until America's economic and political future--
and the freedom of nations across the globe--is secure from the threat 
of China's influence.
  I want to thank Senator Rubio and Senator Cardin and all Senators of 
the U.S. for their support of this bill.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Missouri.
  Mr. HAWLEY. Madam President, just two brief points this evening--the 
first is that I am proud to join not only as a supporter of this 
measure but as original cosponsor, and I want to thank the other 
Senators--Senator Rubio, especially Senator Cardin, and Senator Risch--
for their leadership on this issue, but I want to be clear that we are 
here today in this Chamber, and what we are doing is possible tonight 
because of the bravery and the courage of the protesters in Hong Kong.
  Many of them are very young people who are risking their very lives, 
taking to the streets, standing for democracy, standing for the 
promises that were made to them by Beijing many years ago and fighting 
for them now, putting everything on the line. And I just want to say to 
those protesters that you are making a difference, that your lives have 
made a difference, and to those who even now are trapped inside PolyU 
in this siege that the Hong Kong police force has created--this 
humanitarian crisis that the Hong Kong police force has fostered--what 
you are doing is inspiring the world. What you are doing has moved this 
body. What you are doing is changing the world. Thank you for your 
courage. Thank you for your bravery. Thank you for believing in your 
city, and thank you for believing in Hong Kong.
  The other thing I would say is that, while today is a good day in the 
struggle to preserve the freedoms of this city and the struggle against 
a totalitarian regime in Beijing, it is not the last day. Although this 
step is an important step that this Chamber takes, it is not the last 
step that this Nation may need to take in order to hold China to its 
commitments made in 1984, in order to protect the autonomy and the 
liberty of the city of Hong Kong because, make no mistake, we are in 
for a long struggle with Communist China. We are in for a long struggle 
with Beijing. We know what their ambitions are: to dominate Hong Kong, 
to dominate Taiwan, to dominate the region and, ultimately, to impose 
their will on the entire international system. We are going to have to 
stand against that for freedom, for liberty, for our security and our 
prosperity.
  So there is much to do. There is a long road ahead of us, but today 
is a good day, and I hope the people of Hong Kong will see that the 
people of the free world are awake, that they are with you, and we are 
ready to stand together.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Tennessee.
  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam President, I want to thank Senator Rubio for 
the work that he has done on this a few minutes earlier. Today, I spoke 
about the cause of freedom and how we are seeing people around the 
world stand up for freedom--and, yes, indeed, we see this in Hong Kong, 
and it does inspire us. The message that we are sending to Beijing is 
that, indeed, we are watching and we are paying attention--and to the 
Hong Kong protesters, for them to know that we are watching what they 
are doing and that we are standing with them.
  It is important to note that China has really earned its place atop 
the list of the world's most notorious human rights violators, and over 
the past few weeks, Hong Kong's descent into chaos and bloodshed has 
provided a much-needed reminder of the horrors, the absolute horrors of 
authoritarian rule.
  There can be no change without accountability, and Beijing needs to 
know we are focused on that accountability, which is why, today, I am 
so pleased to stand with these other Members of this Chamber in support 
of the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act. The bill does demand 
accountability, not only from Beijing but also from us. It will require 
us to monitor Hong Kong's progress toward autonomy and China's behavior 
toward Hong Kong people who choose to exercise their internationally 
recognized rights, those rights that we have spoken of in this Chamber 
today.
  The bill will help us identify the tactics Beijing uses to capture 
Hong Kong's dissidents and then to trap them on mainland China, and we 
will also ensure that no peaceful protesters are denied visas to the 
United States because of the alleged crimes.
  Now, I will tell you, the bill is a great start, but the time and the 
work that we put in it will be wasted unless every single Member of 
this Chamber makes a commitment to hold us accountable, to hold China 
accountable. I would encourage my colleagues to view their support of 
this legislation as a promise to these protesters in Hong Kong, that 
their cries for help are not going to go unanswered.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Texas.
  Mr. CRUZ. Madam President, today, brave men and women, boys and 
girls, are standing up and demanding that the Chinese Communist Party 
protect Hong Kong's autonomy, protect free speech, and defend human 
rights.
  Despite these peaceful protests, the Chinese Communist Party is 
fighting back with brutality and violence. The police brutality that we 
have seen and the Chinese Communist Party's larger assault on the 
people of Hong Kong has

[[Page S6654]]

been shameful. Just this past weekend, the Hong Kong police began 
attacking young, innocent students who were peacefully protesting that 
brutality. They were attacked with tear gas and rubber bullets.
  These students' college campus was turned into a warzone, where no 
one was safe. Today, we have the opportunity to tell the world, these 
blatant human rights attacks and this campaign to bully Hong Kong into 
submission are not OK and America won't stand for it.
  Last month, I traveled to Hong Kong. I met with many brave men and 
women who were standing up. I met with the dissidents, the pro-
democracy protesters who are speaking out for Hong Kong's autonomy and 
free speech and basic human rights. Along with them, I dressed in all 
black to express my solidarity with the peaceful protestors who have 
taken to the streets.
  Right now, in response to that protest, tear gas, sponge grenades, 
rubber bullets are being fired at university campuses in Hong Kong. In 
Xinjiang Province, millions of detained Uighurs and other religious 
minorities are languishing in concentration camps, and across China, 
Falun Gong practitioners are captured and murdered so that the 
Communist Party can harvest their organs.
  Freedom from this brutality and the tyranny of the Chinese Communist 
Party is the battle cry of the dissidents in Hong Kong. What have they 
been waving? American flags. What have they been singing? The American 
National Anthem--reciting quotations from our Founding Fathers who 
risked everything for freedom in America.
  Madam President, I want to thank Senators Rubio, Cardin, Risch, 
Menendez, and all the members of the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee, both Republicans and Democrats who have joined together. 
This legislation the Senate is preparing to pass, the Hong Kong Human 
Rights and Democracy Act, is important legislation. It is bipartisan 
legislation. I urge the House to take it up and pass it and pass it 
promptly.
  The people in Hong Kong are engaged in an existential battle for 
liberty, and they should know and they will know, by our actions in 
just a few moments, that the people of America stand with Hong Kong.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Democratic leader.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I sincerely thank my colleagues. This 
has been a great bipartisan moment on the floor of the Senate for a 
very important issue.
  I particularly thank my colleagues from Florida, Senator Rubio; from 
Maryland, Senator Cardin; from New Jersey, Senator Menendez; and from 
Idaho, Senator Risch, as well as all the others who had a hand in this 
work.
  The Senate has just sent a resounding message to the Chinese 
Communist Party and President Xi that the United States stands with the 
democratic protestors in Hong Kong. The bipartisan legislation, with 
the great help of the chair and ranking members of the Foreign 
Relations Committee, will safeguard Hong Kong's democracy and autonomy 
and hold accountable those responsible for any human rights abuses in 
Hong Kong. The bipartisan legislation that will soon be offered by the 
Senators from Oregon and Texas will make sure that U.S. companies don't 
sell riot equipment to Hong Kong.
  We have sent a message to President Xi: Your suppression of freedom, 
whether in Hong Kong, in northwest China, or anywhere else, will not 
stand. You cannot be a great leader and you cannot be a great country 
when you oppose freedom, when you are so brutal to the people of Hong 
Kong, young and old, who are protesting, when you are so brutal to the 
Uighurs in northwest China, and when China is censored so that Chinese 
people can't get the truth. History has shown that that always fails, 
President Xi--always fails.
  China has taken dramatic steps backward in the curtailment of 
freedom.
  As my colleagues well know, the protests in Hong Kong have now taken 
an ominous turn. The Hong Kong police--no doubt at the behest of the 
Communist Party in Beijing--have undertaken an increasingly violent 
crackdown on student protesters. As the ruling party in Beijing 
continues to flout Hong Kong's judicial independence while perpetrating 
a brutal suppression of minority groups from one end of China to the 
other, Americans' support for the democratic rights of Hong Kong 
citizenry is paramount.
  To the people of China: We stand with you in freedom.
  To the kids in Hong Kong, the students and the adults: We stand with 
you.
  To the Uighurs who simply want to practice their religion: We stand 
with you.
  Freedom will prevail, and the Chinese system will either change or 
fail.