  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  The world is watching Hong Kong, and Hong Kong is watching the floor 
of the House of Representatives. People by the tens of thousands in 
Hong Kong have demonstrated in favor of bills we are considering here 
today. In doing so, they have taken great risk to themselves and showed 
tremendous courage. The least we could do is pass these bills.
  I rise today to speak in favor of these bills on Hong Kong. I am 
proud to cosponsor all of the legislation under consideration dealing 
with Hong Kong.
  I want to first focus on a resolution I introduced with our 
colleagues, Mrs. Wagner; Mr. Connolly; and Mr. Yoho, the ranking member 
of the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and Nonproliferation, my 
partner on the Asia, the Pacific, and Nonproliferation Subcommittee.
  This resolution demonstrates that the so-called extradition bill is 
an infringement on the rights of the people of Hong Kong, including 
their right to a high degree of autonomy, autonomy that was granted to 
Hong Kong when that city was returned to the control of Beijing.
  This resolution also establishes that the House of Representatives 
stands with Hong Kong protestors and supports their five major demands. 
These demands are:
  Complete withdrawal of the extradition bill;
  Universal suffrage in the election of the chief executive and all 
members of the Legislative Council;
  The establishment of an independent commission to investigate the 
police's excessive use of force against the protestors;
  The changing of the classification so these protests are not 
classified as riots and the participants are not classified as rioters; 
and, finally,
  Having all charges against the people who participate in these 
protests dropped.
  Many of us in Congress and around the United States have been 
inspired by the people of Hong Kong standing up for their fundamental 
rights over the last few months. One of the protests brought nearly 25 
percent of the entire population of Hong Kong into the streets. That is 
simply unprecedented.
  It would behoove Beijing to heed the protestors' demands. Sadly, 
instead of recognizing their own role in causing these protests, the 
Chinese Communist Party has tried to characterize the demonstrations as 
the handiwork of the United States. We categorically reject this 
assertion.
  These protests were motivated, first and foremost, in reaction to the 
effort by the People's Republic of China and the Chinese Communist 
Party to interfere in the autonomy that was promised to the people of 
Hong Kong. These protests were motivated by the policies of Beijing and 
the Hong Kong government that have increasingly reduced the city's high 
degree of autonomy.
  The state-run media has even gone so far as to accuse a particular 
State Department official by name of orchestrating the protests. That 
is an insult to the people of Hong Kong, who speak for themselves and 
act for themselves. Moreover, it has put that diplomat and her family 
in danger. This is simply unacceptable behavior, and the Stand with 
Hong Kong Resolution criticizes this egregious action by the Chinese 
Government.
  Finally, let me reiterate my support for the other complementary 
bills that we are considering today on Hong Kong.
  The first is the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019, 
which was introduced by our colleague Mr. Smith, who will be managing 
time on the other side. This legislation will amend the Hong Kong 
Policy Act of 1992 to account for the changes that have taken place 
over the last 25 years.
  The Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act also conveys to Beijing 
that it cannot undermine the city's freedom while expecting America to 
still give that city preferential trade arrangements.
  I am also a strong supporter of Congressman Jim McGovern's PROTECT 
Hong Kong Act, which would restrict U.S. firms' ability to sell the 
Hong Kong police weapons to use against protestors.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

[[Page H8118]]

  

  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield as much time as he may 
consume to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Yoho).
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Mr. Smith and Mr. 
Sherman, whom I have the pleasure of serving with on the Foreign 
Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and Nonproliferation, for 
raising this important topic.
  I rise today to bring attention to three very important and timely 
measures that the House will consider this afternoon. These bipartisan 
measures passed out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously, 
and they include H. Res. 543, by Representative Sherman; H.R. 3289, by 
Representative Smith; and H.R. 4270, by Representative McGovern. I am 
proud to say that I am a cosponsor of all three.
  Over the past 5 months, mass civilian protests in Hong Kong have 
begun to shed light on the deterioration of the Chinese Communist 
Party's influence outside of mainland China. Rising resentment in Hong 
Kong is not simply a result of the ill-fated extradition law championed 
by Chief Executive Carrie Lam, but the continued encroachment on 
freedom and liberties by President Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist 
Party.
  Despite the 1997 Sino-British agreement, leaders in Beijing continued 
their high-intensity political pressure campaign to subdue dissent 
within Hong Kong, which has emboldened the people of Hong Kong to stand 
up against Beijing, but more for freedom. This is illustrated by the 
people of Hong Kong raising and waving the American flag while burning 
the Chinese flag.
  The protestors now maintain five demands that Mr. Sherman already 
talked about: withdrawal of the extradition bill; drop charges against 
the protestors; launch an investigation into the police forces; and 
universal suffrage, which would allow voters to directly pick their 
leaders instead of hand-picked leaders of their chief executive by 
Beijing.
  As the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and 
Nonproliferation, I have been extremely outspoken against the continued 
deterioration of rights and freedoms in Hong Kong. The passage of these 
important pieces of legislation will send a strong message to President 
Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist Party that these abuses will not 
be tolerated by the international community.
  Keep in mind that China and Great Britain signed this international 
agreement in 1997, where it stated that Hong Kong would be an 
autonomous region, self-ruled, and have an independent judiciary 
system. Only 22 years into it, Xi Jinping has said, as far as he is 
concerned, that agreement is null and void, and so you see the people 
of Hong Kong standing up in protest. Because they have experienced 
freedom and liberty, they are willing to risk their life.
  I just had a group of Hong Kong students come in. These are the 
people who are right in the forefront of the protests in Hong Kong, and 
they came to our office begging for help from the American people, from 
the American Government.
  Now, granted, Hong Kong, we all know, is a province of China. But we 
also know there was an agreement, for 50 years, it was to be 
autonomously ruled with an independent judiciary committee that Xi 
Jinping and the Communist Party of China have canceled, and I think 
this is a message for all people of the intent of what China is doing.
  We, as Members of Congress, have so much more that we represent. It 
is not a political body where we fight back and forth and discuss 
different things. What we represent here in America is what people 
around the world are willing to risk their life for and to stand up, in 
front of the face of adversity, to one of the emerging superpowers of 
the world and say: We do not accept your communist authority rule. We 
want you to honor liberty and freedom.
  See, the people of Hong Kong, they have experienced freedom and 
liberties. Xi Jinping and the Communist Party can't understand that 
because they have never experienced freedom or liberty. As supposedly 
the greatest deliberative body on the planet, this transcends way 
beyond what we do here.
  This is standing up for ideals that people around the world are 
willing to die for, and it is this body that can send a strong message 
to the Chinese Communist Party, to Xi Jinping that says we will not let 
liberties and freedom be taken away from people who have claimed that, 
who have known that all their life, and that that should be honored by 
those who are trying to take it apart.
  Before they want to take it apart, I suggest Xi Jinping and the 
Communist Party try freedom and liberty: Try democracy for a while; you 
might like it.
  I think these are three very important bills that should pass through 
this House unanimously and should pass through the Senate to show that 
we stand in solidarity with the folks, our friends in Hong Kong; and, 
if not, if we don't send a strong message, it will embolden China.
  I hope manufacturers and all businesses around the world that do 
business in Hong Kong are paying attention to this, because they are 
the ones that are creating a business environment that feeds China so 
that they can continue these terrible acts of suppression of liberties 
and freedoms. I hope the business community will say: You know what, we 
stand with the American people.
  It pains me when I see people like the NBA or other organizations, 
corporations that will bow down to China, and they do it for profit. It 
is time that we stand up not just as Americans, but people who are the 
bearers of liberty and freedom around the world that the rest of the 
world looks to.
  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may 
consume to the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Hill).
  Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from New Jersey 
very much for allowing me to speak on the subject of Hong Kong today.
  I rise in support of all these bills before us today, particularly 
the bill from my friend from New Jersey, the Hong Kong Human Rights and 
Democracy Act, and I stand in solidarity with all freedom-loving people 
in Hong Kong.
  For more than 4 months, we have witnessed Hong Kong citizens 
peacefully protest for the right to live in a free and fair political 
system.
  Over my years, I have traveled to Hong Kong and witnessed their 
innovative spirit and work ethic. In fact, Hong Kong was the model for 
the post-World War II growth of the Asian Tigers in their prosperity 
and innovation.

                              {time}  1545

  In the 1980s, when a proponent of welfare statism queried pro-growth 
economist Melvyn B. Krauss:
  ``But how many Hong Kongs can the world have?''
  Dr. Krauss replied, ``As many as the world will allow itself.''
  Freedom lovers should rally to that wisdom.
  This summer, I had the opportunity to hear directly from leaders in 
Hong Kong dedicated to religious tolerance and democracy as promised in 
the one country, two systems agreement.
  The people of Hong Kong continue to wave American flags during their 
protests as a symbol for the freedoms that they desire.
  Rather than receiving support from all over our great land here in 
this country, they have had to witness the blatant hypocrisy that we 
have seen from U.S. companies, including the National Basketball 
Association, more worried about the bottom line and retribution from 
the PRC, rather than standing up for the basic human rights that we are 
so blessed with in this country and that we advocate for as a part of 
our foreign policy all over this globe.
  The free world is looking to us for leadership, and that is why I 
thank the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith), Mr. McGovern, and Mr. 
Sherman for supporting these legislative efforts on a bipartisan basis, 
but more importantly, supporting the people in Hong Kong that they have 
the right to freedom of expression and democratic governance guaranteed 
under that 50-year arrangement agreed to in 1997 by both--by both, Mr. 
Speaker--the United Kingdom and the People's Republic of China.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support these measures 
today, and I thank their sponsors.
  Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for

[[Page H8119]]

time, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may 
consume, and I will close.
  Mr. Speaker, several years ago, I joined the then chairman of the 
Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Royce, in visiting Hong Kong. We had a 
chance to spend a lot of time with both young and more experienced 
leaders fighting for democracy and autonomy for Hong Kong. And this 
has, in fact, been the policy of the United States since the 1992 Hong 
Kong Policy Act, which establishes our support for democratization as a 
fundamental principle of U.S. foreign policy.
  In recent days, we have seen demonstrators in Hong Kong asking the 
U.S. Congress to pass the three pieces of legislation that are before 
us. The protestors want to know if our support for democracy is merely 
rhetorical or if we are willing to take action to defend our 
principles.
  By passing these three bills today, we will affirm that the U.S. 
Congress supports democracy, human rights, and appropriate autonomy for 
Hong Kong.
  Mr. Speaker, as to all three bills, I want to thank Speaker Pelosi 
and Chairman Engel and many other colleagues for their leadership on 
this issue.
  Mr. Speaker, turning to the specifics of H. Res. 543, the specific 
matter before us at this moment, I want to thank my Foreign Affairs 
Committee colleagues for helping to introduce this measure, including 
Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Connolly, and Mr. Yoho, who spoke just a few minutes 
ago.
  H. Res. 543 recognizes our country's strong relationship with the 
people of Hong Kong. It is an important measure of solidarity at a time 
when protesters are facing police brutality and China is trying to take 
away the autonomy that it promised.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this measure, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 
543, a resolution ``Recognizing Hong Kong's bilateral relationship with 
the United States, condemning the interference of the People's Republic 
of China in Hong Kong's affairs, and supporting the people of Hong 
Kong's right to protest.''
  As a senior member of the House Committee on the Judiciary, I support 
H. Res. 543 because it calls on the Hong Kong government to address the 
protesters' five demands, condemns police brutality against peaceful 
protesters, and condemns efforts to falsely accuse U.S. diplomats of 
fueling unrest.
  On June 30, 1997, China resumed the exercise of sovereignty over Hong 
Kong, ending more than 150 years of British colonial rule.
  Hong Kong is a customs territory and economic entity separate from 
the rest of China and is able to enter into international agreements on 
its own behalf in commercial, economic, and certain legal matters.
  U.S. policy toward Hong Kong is stated in the U.S.-Hong Kong Policy 
Act of 1992 and grounded in the determination to promote Hong Kong's 
prosperity, autonomy, and way of life.
  The United States maintains substantial economic and political 
interests in Hong Kong.
  The U.S. supports Hong Kong's autonomy under the ``One Country, Two 
Systems'' framework by concluding and implementing bilateral 
agreements; promoting trade and investment; broadening law enforcement 
cooperation; bolstering educational, academic, and cultural links; 
supporting high-level visits of U.S. officials; and serving the large 
community of U.S. citizens and visitors.
  After 22 years, protests erupted over Carrie Lam's proposal to amend 
extradition laws to allow suspects to be transferred to mainland China 
for trial.
  A few days after proposing the amendment to the extradition laws, 
Carrie Lam suspended the proposal, but the protests in Hong Kong 
continue as the people of Hong Kong demand the high degree of autonomy 
promised by the Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984.
  It is critical for the United States Congress to stand with the women 
and men advocating and speaking up for the autonomy and dignity of 
people of Hong Kong.
  I applaud the efforts and sacrifices pro-democracy activists have 
made and they should know that the United States fully supports their 
desire for freedom and peace, and strongly condemns the violent and 
oppressive tactics of the Hong Kong police.
  As a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, I 
support the bilateral relationship between Hong Kong and the United 
States and the promotion of international peace.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H. Res. 
543 to condemn the brutality faced by the people of Hong Kong and which 
poses a strong threat to the democratic values we work to protect.